---
layout: post
title: About me - baseq
excerpt: "An introduction to me, Gabriel Fok, aka baseq."
categories: [personal]
tags: [life]
---
tldr; Hi, I'm Gabriel, a computer science student at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona who has a passion for cybersecurity. 
#### The Beginning
Ever since I was young, I've loved computers and technology. What initially hooked me onto technology were old generation gaming devices like the SNES, Nintendo 64, and GameBoy. Throughout my childhood, I played countless hours of assorted video games and developed a passion for games that united people across great distances and created a sense of community. Throughout middle school, I thought that I wanted to become a game developer to partake in that connecting of people.

When I entered high school, I was introduced to a whole new world of technology - cybersecurity. Prior, I had no clue about just how interconnected all the devices around me were. I started as a complete cyber newbie at a simple summer camp, but as the years passed by, I became increasingly more passionate about cybersecurity. I competed in CyberPatriot, the largest youth cyberdefense competition, for 4 years as Linux system specialist. I learned how to harden a number of services like SSH, FTP, LAMP stack websites and more. By the end of high school, I had taught hundreds of people, served as my school's Linux security co-lead, and placed 4th and 6th at the CyberPatriot national finals. You can read more about my time in CyberPatriot on my LinkedIn [here](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gabriel-fok-653aba174/). 

### Now
Now that I've discovered this whole new world of technology, my goals are centered in security. At my college, California Polytechnic University, Pomona, I joined the SWIFT (Students With an Interest in the Future of Technology) and the CCDC (Collegiete Cyber Defense Competition) team to further my education in cybersecurity. I still enjoy video games (eSports, too), and still am passionate about conneceting people. But now my goal is to help people stay safe and connected as modern technology pushes farther ahead.
